as epictetus said he is a wise man who
does not grieve for things which he has
not but rejoices for those which he has
and that's gratitude isn't it it's the
very base decision that we all have to
make are you grateful for the things you
have in your life or are you always
wanting more and trust me I get it I
understand people that strive for more I
understand people that want something
bigger and better but at the same time
if you allow yourself to only think
about what you don't have to only be
striving for something more that that
obsession will begin to overtake you it
will begin to corrode you but ultimately
it's a choice ultimately at any time
right now in this moment you can stop
and think about what you have you can
put your attention on the things you're
grateful for and watch what it does
watch what it does in that instance the
way that it changes you the way that it
changes your chemistry your feelings in
a moment can shift from negative and
dark to beautiful with nothing else
changing around you nothing but you
deciding that you're gonna focus on the
things you're grateful for nothing but
deciding that there are things in your
life to be grateful for and that is a
decision no matter what is happening in
your life at any moment right now in the
depths of a depression in something
going on terribly in your life you can
choose right now to think about the
things you're grateful for
the breeze a smile from somebody kind a
stranger who holds open a door for you
anything but it's a choice and as
Einstein said there are only two ways to
live your life
one is as though nothing is a miracle
the other is as though everything is a
miracle and what choice are you making
what are you choosing to focus on right
now do you let gratitude fill you up or
not and here's the critical part and I
want you to listen to this really well
whatever you decide whether you decide
we live in a world of miracles or
whether we decide we live in a world
devoid of miracles you are choosing one
thing to the exclusion of the other and
when you focus on something you're
grateful for when you look
like and choose to see the man's grand
miracles even winning is only a gentle
hand on your shoulder even then it's
only a kiss from somebody who you've
kissed a thousand times before even when
it is only holding the hand of somebody
who needed their hand held even when
it's something that simple
[Music]
it really is a miracle that it really is
something that can fill you it really is
something that will change your
chemistry bring a connection between two
people allow you to see a grander Vista
or even just open a window and look out
at the world and realize that you're
alive that this is all a miracle that
none of this is guaranteed that every
breath you take could be your last and
in that you can choose to cherish what
you have in that you can decide to focus
on that you have a breath to take and
even when it's something that simple
when you train your mind to do that when
you train yourself to decide to see the
beauty in that that nobody can ever take
it away from you and matter where you
are no matter what's going on in your
life you'll be able to rise up and feel
the beauty that is being alive so take a
minute
at the worst times in your life and
focus on the things you're grateful for
[Music]
[Applause]